Monday
25 February 2019

The Future is Quantum
Location: Convention Center, Grand Ballroom 220A
Date & Time: Monday 25 February 2019, 8:30 AM - 9:10 AM
Presenter(s): Dario Gil, IBM Research (United States)
States of entangled qubits cannot be described independently of each other. Non-local action is possible.  2 qubits equal to 512 classical bits, 3 qubits 1024 bits, 35 is 550 Gbits.  n qubits has 2n paths which creates an equal superposition of all 2n states.  The problem:  encode the program onto the system by applying all 2n states.  The magic: interfere all states back to a few outcomes containing the solution.  Shor’s algorithm, factor a number into primes M = p*q.  Classical t~exp(O(n0.33*log0.66n)).  Quantum t~O(n3).  Qiskit is available on-line to write quantum computers.  IBM’s quantum computer operates at 15mK.  Superconducting Qubit: Josephson Junction as a non-linear inductor.  Superconducting microwave resonators: read-out of qubit states, multi-qubit quantum bus, and noise filter.  Coherence time is 50-100microseconds.  Push coherence time to larger time and to have error correction.  In quantum volume consideration, decrease the error rate rather than just increasing number of qubits.  In the 2020s, real world problems will be solved on quantum computers. In quantum chemistry research, IBM has simulated beryllium hydride BeH2 molecule with 8 Qubits.  Number of calculations on classical computer complexity is 2^number of electrons.  On Qubit computer complexity is number of electrons (one qubit per electron).  There is a relationship between quantum computing and machine learning.  Linear inseparable datasets may become linearly separable by increasing dimensionality.  In quantum computers, Hilbert space of the machine learning (ML) problem is modeled.  Classification success of ML improves as the number of entanglement steps increases.  Three ways to break up a problem, run part on classical von nueman CPU, part on AI chip, and part on quantum.  Fabricating requires breaking the 2-D plane into 3-D but will always will require super conducting.  Quantum computing does not have a Danard’s law (yet).  Minimum feature size of the Qbit is 100nm.  Limitation of coherence time is not fully understood yet.  There are photon based qubit approaches.

Silicon-based quantum computing: manufacturing and metrology challenges
Location: Convention Center, Grand Ballroom 220B
Date & Time: Monday 25 February 2019, 11:50 AM - 12:25 PM
Presenter(s): Richard M. Silver, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
Qbit can be in a superposition of up and down spin states (theta angle in Bloch sphere) and there is a time dependent quantum phase (phi angle).  A single qubit encodes all of this information onto the entire surface of the Bloch sphere.  Silicon-based qubit uses a SiGe quantum well.  For quantum error correction, superposition of the spin up and spin down states is sensitive to the local environment consisting of electrical noise, of 29Si nuclear spins, of magnetic field noise, of atomic defects, and of charge traps.  The quantum mechanical phase information is even more sensitive.  The decoherence or de-phasing time determines the lifetime of the qubit and gate operation fidelities.  Microwave pulse creates superposition of spin up and spin down state.  A magnetic field is applied to separate spin up and spin down, and microwave pulse to create superposition.  A-gates modulate hyperfine interaction  control resonance frequency of 31P.  J-gates modulate electron-mediated coupling between 31P atoms.  Very thin layer of P (few atoms thick) is sandwiched between 2 layers of Si.  Measure with nondestructive quantum metrology using weak localization.  Self-intersecting conduction pathways when path length is less than the phase coherence length.  A magnetic flux through the two conduction loop pathways is applied.  Showed results with 28Si enriched Si  epitaxy grown into the quantum well.  Use gate to move quantum dot energy levels.  ISD versus VG has delta function peaks.  Accurate modeling and fabrication (CD control and registration) for reliable initialize, readout, and phase manipulation.  Repeatable and stable tunnel coupling and charge drift are a key to stable operation.  State art Si Qubits is 10 Qubits.  
 ----------
 reading notes:
 public url: https://semiengineering.com/quantum-effects-at-7-5nm/
 "Below 7nm, chipmaking will dig much deeper into the intersection of electrical engineering and quantum physics. "
 

